Welcome back.
The scariest part of JavaScript this some would say the most confusing.
Some even hated so much that they try to avoid it at all cost in their code because it creates so much
confusion let's try and decode this mystery and figure out what this is all about.
Now keep in mind this is a topic we're going to really dive deep into during the Object Oriented Programming
section of the course but we are focusing on learning the fundamentals of this keyword.
In the section so that when this term comes up later on in the course we have our foundation ready.
So what is this.
And although it looks intimidating this isn't that hard because all that it means is this.
This is the object that the function is a property of.
That's it.
So what does that mean.
Well this is the object that the function is a property of simply means that we have an object and this
object has some function and inside of this function when we do something we have access to the this
keyword.
And this refers to the object that the function is a property of still confused by this.
Let's look at an example.
If I just simply run this here if I click Run well this environment won't let me work with this because
of some safeguards in place.
So let's open up our developer console and in here type in this and if I hit enter I have the window
object.
That's what this is referring to.
Because remember this gets set in our execution context as window initially right.
Remember our diagram when the global execution context starts during the creation phase we create the
global object in this and they equal each other.
In this case the window object is our global object.
So what if we do something like here where I have a function a that we'll just console log
this if I run a what do you think.
The answer will be well we get window.
Once again this is equal to window.
And why is that.
Remember the definition.
This is the object that the function is a property of.
That means we're calling window dot a.
And running it.
That's what we're doing up here.
So what is the object that the function is a property of.
Well the function is a property of the window object.
So that's what this is.
It's the window.
And this should make sense.
Right.
But here's the problem when it comes to coding this part of javascript is a little bit weird in the
sense that most of the time when we're coding we never want this to refer to the global object.
But obviously this happens all the time.
And as we'll see later on one of the pitfalls with this is that we unexpectedly have this referred to
the window object when we think it should be something else.
And if we go back to our example and create function b this time and with function b if I use use strict
and I console dialog this well if I run be here I'll get on defined and remember what I said about the
use strict tag use strict was added to JavaScript as a way for us to avoid the common mistakes that
can happen with JavaScript when the language was originally designed.
It wasn't perfect and there were bits and pieces of mistake and things like you strict allow us to not
have this where this refers to the window object and use strict can be added at the beginning.
The first line of a function or the beginning of our script.
Now I know you're still confused about this.
So let's give a better example.
Remember our global execution context.
We get this out of the box but also when we have a new function we have this as well.
But what's the point of it then.
If most of the time we don't even care that this points to the global object why did they even include
this in the language.
Well let's have a look at an example where this actually becomes useful and the reason that this keyword
was created let's create an object here and this object will have a name that is barely and Billy can
sing so we'll have a function here and inside of this function we can just return.
Billy singing la la la.
And we wanted to say la la la.
Billy or use the name property.
Mm hmm.
But how can we do that inside of an object.
How can we access a property so that this sync function can sing Billy's name.
I mean we could write Billy like this but what if this object changes and all of a sudden it becomes
Veronica.
Now we have to also come over here and change this to Veronica instead.
We can use that this keyword I can simply say this dot name and why is that.
Because remember our definition.
This is the object that the function is a property of.
This is the object that these sync function is a property of so we're simply saying here object dot
name but obviously object dot name wouldn't work in here.
So we have to have something else like the this keyword so that if I run object dot saying
and I click Run here look at that I have la la la Veronica and if I change this back to Billy I don't
have to change anything in the function it gives me the correct same function.
And by the way we can actually convert this to a newer syntax write it like this which also works and
it's a little bit cleaner so let's go back to that function.
This is the object that the function is a property of.
And this is the rule of thumb that I like to use.
This refers to whatever is to the left of the dot.
Remember with an object we access properties and methods of an object and a method of an object is a
function.
So methods are functions that are inside of objects so the property and methods can be accessed with
this dot notation and when it comes to this.
This simply refers to hate inside of this function.
What's to the left of the dot well object and that's all you really need to know about this.
It's whatever to the left of the dot which is the object that the function is a property of.
Now I know you're still confused.
I still don't get why this is that useful.
Let's use another example let's say that in this object I want to create a another function that says
sing again and sing again and let's make this a little bit bigger.
There you go.
Sing again should well sing again.
We want to run this function or perhaps sing again does something a little bit different.
Maybe it adds an exclamation mark at the end.
How will we go about doing this.
Well I can just copy whatever the function does here and just add an exclamation mark at the end so
that when I run sing again and I click Run and I have to make sure I add a comma here let's click Run
I have sing again with the exclamation mark but this isn't good right.
One of the principles of being a good programmer is dry do not repeat yourself.
And this is a simple example with well one line of code when it comes to a function but you see here
that we're just copying code the exact same thing over and over a better way of doing this is to call
the same function and then add the exclamation mark to it once again if we change something let's say
we change something in the sing function we don't have to change it here as well.
So what we would do in this case as you may have guessed is this dot saying which returns this piece
of string and then add the exclamation mark at the end felt like run.
Look at that.
It still works.
We're now repeating ourselves.
We're keeping things dry.
That's very good.
Here are the two main benefits of this and why the this keyword was created.
The number one reason it gives us methods or it gives methods access to their object it gives Singh
access to the object so that it can use properties and methods within that object so its siblings.
The second reason that the this keyword is so important or it benefits us is that we can execute the
same code for multiple objects.
What does this one mean.
Number one that makes sense.
We have access now to all these methods and properties on our object which is great and we can keep
our code dry.
Like I've shown you here.
But what about this second part.
Well let's talk about the second part or the second benefit of this with another example.
Let's create a function and this function will be let's say important person and this important person
function simply console dot logs.
This dot name.
Now if I run this this is going to refer to the window object because when I call important or I can't
spell important person important person and I run this it's being called with the global object window.
Dot important person to the left of the dot is the window.
So this is going to refer to window like doing window dot name and window Don name won't really know
anything about this so let's create that property.
I'm going to create a name property that is sunny and I'm also going to create two objects.
The first object will have name
Cassie and we're also going to have the important person function from up over here.
That's going to say important person and then the second object will have the same thing will have object
to name is going to be Jacob and they're going to use important person now right over here.
I'm demonstrating the second important use when it comes to the this keyword it executes.
Same code for multiple objects I've run a function once and now multiple objects can use this object
one has important person method an object two has important person method once again and as long as
I just change the code only here.
Both of them are going to get the changes.
If I had an exclamation mark here both of these have the same code again keeping our code dry.
But let's see what happens now.
Let's say that I console log here and let's test this out.
If I console log name here what would the result be or more importantly if I do import and person and
I run this function.
What do you think I'll get.
Who's the important person here.
Remember the important person function simply runs console lock this down name the important person
in this case is what's to the left or who's calling.
Import person while the global object window is calling person.
So we get Sunny because Sunny is the property on the global object which we created.
Remember this is a global variable but what if I do object one dot important person who's the important
person.
Well who's calling it.
Object 1 is calling important person the left of the dot.
So the important person in this case is Cassie because we're calling this method and this is now referring
to this is a function that is a method of Object 1 and if I change this to object to I get Jacob how
cool is that.
Those are the two main benefits of this.
It gives methods access to their object and it also executes same code for multiple objects both things
making our code cleaner simpler.
We're not repeating ourselves.
So to review this is usually determined by asking hey execution context what called the function what
called me.
So you can think of this as who called me who's that person that run me as a function and the this keyword
acts as a placeholder and we'll refer to whichever object called that method.
Now there's an interesting thing that happened here which we're going to visit in the next video I'll
see on that one by.